{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Hi, welcome to the NeCTAR training course.\
This course is structured in 10 modules, of which this is the first. In this module you will learn about what cloud computing is, how it can benefit your research and what types of services NeCTAR offers.\
\
We aim at keeping the video short, so if you would like more detailed information, please refer to the On-Line Documentation available in the link displayed on the screen. \
\
So, what is cloud computing?\
\
The origins of cloud computing go back to the 50ies. Early forms were mainframes and connected clients.\
Back then, you had one main computer, and several very simple client terminals which could be used to do operations on the main computer. The client terminals were little more than a screen and a keyboard.\
\
(draw image).\
\
Today, cloud computing operates on the same principle: Larger amounts of processing power and storage are accessed from a simpler, less powerful device, for example your Laptop computer or your Tablet.\
\
It is not officially clear where the term \'93cloud computing\'94 actually comes from. There are several possible explanations on how the term evolved. \
It may stem from the fact that diagrams often depict the Internet as a cloud.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural
\cf0 Or sometimes, a set of networked computers is surrounded by a cloud.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural
\cf0 (draw pictures)\
\
\'97\'97  Part 2 \'97\'97-\
\
So, how can we sum up cloud computing?\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li540\fi-540
\cf0 Simply put, cloud computing means storing and accessing data and programs over the Internet instead of on your own computers hardware.\
\
Your local computer, which is the computer you are using to connect, is only used to control your resources from remote and display things on your screen \'97 the data and compute servers are actually \'93in the cloud\'94, which is actually one of the data centres of your cloud provider.\
\
So why is this good? Is it not better to have all the hardware on premise?\
Well yes, of course this has its advantages. However imagine for example the scenario of your research analysis software needing lots of computing power and storage. And say your research organization may not be able to provide you with as many resources easily \'97 you would have to go through a lengthy process to obtain access to such computing power, and maybe you\'92d need to wait a significant time until the resources become available to you. Maybe purchasing the infrastructure would even eat up a big chunk of the research budget.\
Here, the advantage of the cloud comes into play: In the cloud, you can easily scale up to the amount of resources you require at a time. You can get access to several computers and large amounts of storage practically in an instant.\
\
(draw image)\
\
\'97\'97  Part 3 \'97\'97\
\
This model is commonly known as \'93pay-per-use\'94. This is because instead of investing once in expensive infrastructure, users pay only for the time they actually use the computers. After they are finished using them, they release the resources and don\'92t pay for them any more.\
The nice thing about the NeCTAR cloud in particular is that is is completely free to researchers across Australia - so you can get easy, free access to computing power and storage in a very short time!!\
\
\
Another advantage is that when your resources are accessible over the Internet, you can grant access to collaborators easily, and save time to synchronise your work, and share the same storage. \
\
( Draw image)\
\
   this might prove more complicated do achieve for infrastructure located in your research organization, as it is not necessarily set up for easy shared network access. \
Of course, the fact that your resources are accessible online may instantly concern you - but don\'92t worry, there is a whole lot of security provided, which we will talk about in more detail particularly in Modules 5 and 8.\
\
There are also other advantages and drawbacks to cloud computing which we will get back to in a moment.\
\
\'97\'97 Part 4 \'97\'97\
\
Now lets define cloud computing in more detail. Cloud computing has 5 main characteristics:\
\
- First, it provides an 
\b on-demand self service
\b0  - consumers can provision resources like computing power and storage according to their needs.\
- Second, 
\b broad network access
\b0  allows access of resources through a variety of devices, for example a laptop computer or hand-held device.\
- Third,  resources are \'93
\b pooled
\b0 \'94, which means consumers can choose their data centre, but not the particular storage device or computer.\
- Forth, the term \'93
\b Elasticity
\b0 \'94 refers to the resources being scalable, which means you can request more resources when needed, and release them when not required any more.\
- Last, cloud computing is a 
\b measured service
\b0 , which means the amount of utilised resources can be monitored in order to provide a pay-per-use service.\
\
With this, cloud computing enables IT infrastructure to be\
- 
\b more flexible
\b0 , as resources can be provisioned according to current requirements.\
- cloud computing is also 
\b easy to use
\b0 , as resources can be provisioned quickly and the consumer does not have to worry about maintenance of infrastructure.\
- cloud computing also aims at 
\b saving the consumer costs
\b0  which would be required for local infrastucture.\
\
\
\'97\'97\'97 Part 5 \'97\'97\
\
\
Common cloud services include:\
- Provision of computing power\
- Storage\
- Database engines \
- Various software services and\
- Development and deployment platforms, which includes tools for developers to integrate and deploy their software, for example of apps compatible with a variety of devices.\
\
Cloud services that you have most likely already used include the google services as google drive, google docs, apple iCloud and Dropbox. \
The Chromebook is an example of a very heavily cloud-based device: it is a very simple computer which does not have much power of its own, it instead relies almost entirely on cloud resources.\
\
Cloud services can be characterized as different 
\b types
\b0  as well. These are\
- Software-as-a-service, short SaaS, in which \
\pard\pardeftab720\li1170\fi-450
\cf0 the customer subscribes to an application which they then access over the Internet, for example like in Dropbox or the Google Applications. \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural
\cf0 - Then there is Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS), which includes the Development and Deployment platforms mentioned earlier, for example Windows Azure, Google App Engine\
\pard\pardeftab720\li540\fi-540
\cf0 - Most importantly for this course is the type \'93Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS)\'94, in which computing resources (like computers and storage) are provided to the consumer. The NeCTAR Research Cloud  is an IaaS service. We will learn much more about this in this course.\
\
It is easier to recognise the distinction of these 3 types in a graphic. Two properties characterise the types: Constrainedness and Automation. \
\
(show graphic on screen).\
\
[Voice-over] On the left side, there is less constrainedness, that is the amount of control you have about how your services run. But the less contained a service is, the less automation it also provides. So on the left of the graphic we can place the IaaS services in which you have a great amount of control, but have to do a bit more work in setting up your services, as there is less automation. \
Towards the right side, there is more automation, so SaaS services like Google Docs and Dropbox are easy to set up, but you cannot control how they work.\
In the middle ground, we can place the development and deployment platforms in the PaaS services.\
\
As a researcher, you will probably find the IaaS services most useful, while SaaS services are broadly useful for individual work and collaboration, for example setting up a shared dropbox folder with your collaborators.\
\
[ end voice-over]\
\
\'97\'97\'97  Part 6 \'97\'97\
\
Now that you know broadly what cloud computing is about, lets dive into a bit more detail about the technical background. \
The main technology enabling IaaS services is called Virtualisation. Virtualization basically means that the hardware is \'93simulated\'94. \
We can simulate a whole computer incl. the OS. The simulated hardware uses parts of the actual hardware of the more powerful computer. \
\
(draw image)\
\
With this, several computers can run on one larger, more powerful computer. So the cloud computing service provider has several powerful computers to provide a larger number of a little less powerful computers to many customers.\
\
We also call one such simulated computer a \'93virtual machine\'94, or short, \'93VM\'94. Throughout this course we will also refer to such a virtual machine as an \'93instance\'94. An instance or VM running inside the research cloud appears to you as a real computer: it also has an operating system, network access including an IP address, and hard disk storage. You as a user cannot see that the hardware is actually running on top of another. The simulation is quite efficient, so you get the full amount of computing power that you have requested.\
The difference between a VM and a real machine is that a VM does not require hardware maintenance \'97 it is therefore very cheap and easy to use for you. \
Also, because it is simulated, you can \'93take a snapshot\'94 of the current state of your machine and restore it at a later point \'97- this is an advantage that real computers don\'92t offer. \
\
\'97\'97 Part 7 \'97\'97-\
\
One more thing which is useful to know about cloud computing technology is the existence of something called \'93Hypervisors\'94. A hypervisor is the software that manages the communications between the real hardware and the VMs running on it: It creates the VMs, handles their execution, and shuts them down.\
\
(draw image)\
\
The Hypervisor enables the technology \'97 but also brings new vulnerabilities, which luckily can be addressed. We will discuss in more detail in Module 8.\
\
\'97\'97 Part 8 \'97\'97\
\
So as you can probably see so far, the cloud computing technology offers a number of advantages. However there are also common concerns when adopting the technology. \
\
Common concerns include:\
- possible interruptions of the cloud services, for example by loss of internet connection or shutdown of the datacenter.\
- Privacy & Security\
- as well as problems migrating the users resources to the cloud.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 Module 8 will discuss security related information in more detail.\
\pard\pardeftab720\li540\fi-540
\cf0 For now, lets just say that not all common concerns are necessarily justified, as users often don\'92t have sufficient knowledge to assess the actual risks. What many people don\'92t know, is that cloud computing can actually provide security 
\i benefits
\i0  as well. This course aims at providing the necessary information in order to understand the risks of cloud computing and learning what can be done to mitigate them.\
\
\
\
\'97\'97- Part 9 \'97\'97\
\
Now you should have a fairly good idea of what cloud computing is, and you probably want to know what NeCTAR is and what it has to offer for you and your research.\
\
NeCTAR is short for National eResearch Collaboration Tools and Resources and it is an Australian Government project, aiming at making it simple for researchers to access IT resources.\
\
The NeCTAR project aims to support what we call the \'93connected researcher\'94 \'97 the researcher who is in demand of infrastructure for enhanced research collaboration.\
\pard\pardeftab720\li1170\fi-450
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li540\fi-540
\cf0 NeCTAR is building 3 products:\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural
\cf0 - First, the Virtual Laboratories, which provide \ul online platforms\ulnone  for research activities in several research discipline areas, mostly through web portals.\
\pard\pardeftab720\li360\fi-360
\cf0 - Second, the NeCTAR eResearch Tools provide \ul online software tools\ulnone  which are available for common research tasks.\
\
These two products will be described in more detail in module 2. The rest of this course will focus on the third product \'97 The Australian Research Cloud, which is the IaaS Service offered by NeCTAR.\
\
\'97\'97 Part 10 \'97\'97\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural
\cf0 The Research Cloud currently consists of 8 data centres which we call \'93Nodes\'94. Across the 8 nodes,  32.000 processor cores are distributed across Australia.\
\
The Research Cloud deploys one of the significant cloud management software today, called OpenStack, which we will refer to throughout this course. Other cloud providers may use different software to run their cloud, so it is important to be aware of such distinctions between providers.\
\
One very nice thing about the NeCTAR Research Cloud is that it is completely free for Australian researchers to use. Access works through the Australian Access Federation (short AAF), which means you use your normal university or research organisations username and password.\
\pard\pardeftab720\li540\fi-540
\cf0 \
\'97\'97 Part 11 \'97\'97\
\
\
There are a lot of benefits coming with usage of the Research Cloud, a few of which we have already mentioned earlier: \
- You don\'92t have to worry about the costs of your IT infrastructure and about hardware maintenance.\
- Also, the fact of being able to share the same infrastructure as other researchers makes collaboration much easier. For example, you can share access to your virtual machines with other researchers which are at a different physical location.\
- There are a lot of things you can do in the cloud which are otherwise much harder to achieve. In Module 3 we will go through a few common use cases which will illustrate this. \
- One particularly useful feature is that you can snapshot your VM, which makes it easy to reproduce results for you and also for other researchers. We will talk more about such benefits in Module 3.\
\
\
\'97\'97 Part 12 \'97\'97\
\
So lets sum up the information in this video:\
Cloud computing essentially provides services and resources which are located and run in a data centre and that you access via the network, using your local computer.\
Cloud computing is fast on its way to becoming standard technology, as it offers many advantages to the user, such as cost savings, easy access, enhanced collaboration and, particularly for researchers, means to achieve reproducible research.  \
While there are lots of common concerns about cloud computing, many such fears are based on insufficient knowledge. While it is impossible to avoid risks to 100%, both in local IT infrastructure and in cloud computing, cloud computing can actually offer security benefits to the user as well \'97 a fact that is much less widely known. \
\
In the rest of this course, we will build on the knowledge you have gained in this module and refine it with more details and starting from Module 7 you will also get some hands-on experience.\
\
\
\
}